name: JUKE
kind: command

JUKE is a first-party retro music player with a spectrum/VU visualiser. It
plays one file or a whole folder as a queue, and keeps playing when you leave
for another screen. It is a player only: there is no pattern or sample
editing.

JUKE [path$]

  path$ - a file to play, or a folder to queue. Omit it to queue the
          current directory. A folder queue includes supported files in
          subfolders: each directory is taken folders A-Z, then the files
          beside them, up to 8 directories deep and 256 tracks. A single
          file plays once; a folder queue continues through the queued
          files and then wraps around.

Supported formats:

    MP3     MPEG audio
    MOD     ProTracker modules
    XM      FastTracker II modules
    S3M     ScreamTracker 3 modules
    WAV     PCM audio

JUKE has its own fixed cool-grey palette: it does not follow OPTION THEME,
so it looks the same under every system theme. Leaving JUKE restores your
console theme untouched. The header carries a graffiti wordmark; the
oscilloscope sits in its own panel under the title and trails a ghost
history (older traces fade and cool, the newest stays lime). The 24
spectrum bars run black through grey to lime, and the transport and volume
indicators run along the footer.

Controls:

    SPACE   play or pause
    P       previous track
    N       next track
    L       flip the middle of the screen between the visualiser and the playlist
    Up Down move the playlist selection
    Enter   play the selected track while the playlist is showing
    R       shuffle on or off (SHUF lights up)
    -  +    volume down / up (VOL bar shows the level)
    M       mute or unmute
    S       stop the queue and silence audio
    ESC     quit JUKE (music keeps playing)
    Q       quit JUKE (music keeps playing)

L opens the playlist, which is laid out below the oscilloscope so the
waveform stays visible. The queue is shown in play order, the same order
NEXT and PREV follow. The current track is marked, the selection is
highlighted, and the list scrolls when the queue is longer than the pane.
Up and Down move the selection; Enter starts that track. Pressing L again
returns to the visualiser and leaves the selection where it was. SPACE, P,
N, R, volume, mute, S, and ESC do the same in both views.

Shuffle reorders folder and queue play: NEXT and PREV follow the shuffled
order, and the currently playing track stays put. The playlist follows that
order. The title line prefers the song name stored in a MOD, XM, or S3M module,
or the ID3 title of an MP3. A missing or unreadable name falls back to the
file name, and the path is shown under the title when the two differ.
Titles are read for the current track and for playlist rows as they are
shown, not for every file while the queue is built. The playlist shows
each track's path under the folder when no song name is available. A "more"
note means the scan hit the 256-track queue, the 8-level depth, or a
directory that did not fit. Volume is the player
gain that ~PLAY~ VOLUME sets; it holds across track changes while JUKE is open.

Enter on the visualiser quits; the music is not stopped, so you can keep
listening from the console or join another screen. The queue keeps advancing
in the background until it reaches the end of a single file or you use PLAY
STOP.

If you switch to another console while JUKE is open, the track still ends
and the queue still advances there; see ~CONSOLES~.

Example:

    JUKE "tests/TEST.MOD"
    JUKE "music"
    JUKE

See ~PLAY~ for PLAY STOP, PLAY PAUSE and PLAY VOLUME.
